docs: DOC-2060: Cluster Templates (#8323)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/cluster-templates/create-cluster-template-policies/maintenance-policy.md

hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["cluster templates", "policies"]
---

:::preview

:::

A maintenance policy is a required component for [cluster templates](../cluster-templates.md). Maintenance policies
determine when and how upgrades are executed on the cluster. Since clusters can be provisioned across multiple regions
and time zones, upgrades are executed based on Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).

When the cluster profile version linked to a cluster template is updated, or when profiles are added, deleted, or
replaced, the associated maintenance policy automatically schedules upgrades for all active clusters. These clusters are
then upgraded during the upgrade window defined in the maintenance policy. Each maintenance policy can have multiple
upgrade schedules, and upgrades can be [manually triggered](../modify-cluster-templates.md#overview-tab) outside of the
defined schedule, giving you the flexibility to trigger upgrades across clusters whenever necessary.

All clusters must be on the same version and all cluster profile variables must be in an **Assigned** state before

> upgrading to the next version. If some clusters fail to upgrade during the upgrade window, or if clusters deployed with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All clusters must be on the same version and all cluster profile variables must be in an **Assigned** state before
upgrading to the next version.
```

I don't understand that sentence. What are we trying to say here?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All clusters must be on the same cluster profile version, and all cluster profile variables must be in an **Assigned**
state before they can be upgraded to the next cluster profile version. If some clusters fail to upgrade during the upgrade window, or if clusters deployed with
```

    | **year**  | - **every month** - Initiate the update **every month** or select one or multiple months of the year (January - December). <br /> - **every day of the month** - Initiate the update **every day of the month** or select one or multiple days of the month within the range 01 - 31. <br /> - **every day of the week** - Initiate the update **every day of the week** or multiple days of the week (Sunday - Saturday) in the selected month in addition to the selected day of the month. <br /> - **every hour** - Initiate the update **every hour** of the selected day of the month or day of the week or select one or multiple hours within the range 00 - 23. <br /> - **every minute** - Initiate the update **every minute** of the selected hour or select one or multiple minutes within the range 00 - 59. |

> 8.  Select how many hours you want the **Upgrade window** to last. Values range from 1 - 24 hours. During the duration

Reviewer 2: @ravi-k8 Do you know how the cluster upgrade time is split between multiple clusters assigned to the same upgrade window?

> 8.  Select how many hours you want the **Upgrade window** to last. Values range from 1 - 24 hours. During the duration

Reviewer 2: I've generalised this for now: https://github.com/spectrocloud/librarium/pull/8323/files#r2440295900

    | **year**  | - **every month** - Initiate the update **every month** or select one or multiple months of the year (January - December). <br /> - **every day of the month** - Initiate the update **every day of the month** or select one or multiple days of the month within the range 01 - 31. <br /> - **every day of the week** - Initiate the update **every day of the week** or multiple days of the week (Sunday - Saturday) in the selected month in addition to the selected day of the month. <br /> - **every hour** - Initiate the update **every hour** of the selected day of the month or day of the week or select one or multiple hours within the range 00 - 23. <br /> - **every minute** - Initiate the update **every minute** of the selected hour or select one or multiple minutes within the range 00 - 59. |

8.  Select how many hours you want the **Upgrade window** to last. Values range from 1 - 24 hours. During the duration

>     of the upgrade window, updates will be rolled out to the clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8.  Select how many hours you want the **Upgrade window** to last. Values range from 1 - 24 hours. Updates will be deployed to clusters gradually during the upgrade window.
```

---
sidebar_label: "Maintenance Policies"
title: "Maintenance Policies"
description: "Test" # UPDATE
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["cluster templates", "policies"]
---

:::preview

:::

A maintenance policy is a mandatory [policy](./create-cluster-template-policies.md) used with

> [cluster templates](../cluster-templates.md). Maintenance policies determine when and how upgrades are executed on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A maintenance policy is a required component for
[cluster templates](../cluster-templates.md). Maintenance policies determine when and how upgrades are executed on the
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe? I think its better for the user to understand that it's a building block of the template.

cluster. Since clusters can be provisioned across multiple regions and time zones, upgrades are executed based on
Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). [THIS WILL BE CHANGED TO LOCAL TIME IN THE FUTURE]

Maintenance policies are triggered when the cluster profile version linked to a cluster template is updated and an
active cluster is attached to the updated cluster template. The cluster is then upgraded during the upgrade window

> specified in the linked maintenance policy. Each maintenance policy can have multiple upgrade schedules, and upgrades

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the cluster profile version linked to a cluster template is updated, the associated maintenance policy automatically schedules upgrades for all active clusters. These clusters are then upgraded during the upgrade window defined in the maintenance policy. Each maintenance policy can have multiple upgrade schedules, and upgrades
```

Author: I like your suggestion! I also added some clarification that they are triggered when profiles are added, removed, or replaced.

| **Multiple Profile Updates During Rollout**       | 1,000 clusters are deployed from Cluster Template C. A cluster profile linked to Cluster Template C is updated from version 1.0.0 to 2.0.0. During the upgrade window, as clusters are being upgraded from 1.0.0 to 2.0.0, an additional update is made, and the profile version is bumped from 2.0.0 to 3.0.0. | If some clusters were already upgraded to 2.0.0, the update to version 3.0.0 is blocked until all cluster have been updated to version 2.0.0. Once all clusters are updated to version 2.0.0, during the next upgrade window, all 1,000 clusters are upgraded from version 2.0.0 to 3.0.0.                       |

> | **Updates Do Not Complete During Upgrade Window** | 1,000 clusters are deployed from Cluster Template D. A cluster profile linked to Cluster Template D is updated from version 1.0.0 to 2.0.0. Some clusters begin to update to version 2.0.0 during the next scheduled upgrade window, but the updates do not finish before the upgrade window closes.            | Some clusters are upgraded to 2.0.0, and others remain on 1.0.0, forcing the template to enter a "partially applied" state and blocking additional version upgrades. During the next upgrade window, or via a forced upgrade, the clusters finish upgrading to version 2.0.0, and future upgrades are unblocked. |

Reviewer 2: Love this table by the way, just one or two sentence phrasing suggestions. I also think bolding the Cluster Template letters makes distinguishing easier (but you don't have to include that).

> | **Updates Do Not Complete During Upgrade Window** | 1,000 clusters are deployed from Cluster Template D. A cluster profile linked to Cluster Template D is updated from version 1.0.0 to 2.0.0. Some clusters begin to update to version 2.0.0 during the next scheduled upgrade window, but the updates do not finish before the upgrade window closes.            | Some clusters are upgraded to 2.0.0, and others remain on 1.0.0, forcing the template to enter a "partially applied" state and blocking additional version upgrades. During the next upgrade window, or via a forced upgrade, the clusters finish upgrading to version 2.0.0, and future upgrades are unblocked. |

Author: The bold doesn't bother me :) Thanks for the general cleanup!

    | **year**  | - **every month** - Initiate the update **every month** or select one or multiple months of the year (January - December). <br /> - **every day of the month** - Initiate the update **every day of the month** or select one or multiple days of the month within the range 01 - 31. <br /> - **every day of the week** - Initiate the update **every day of the week** or multiple days of the week (Sunday - Saturday) in the selected month in addition to the selected day of the month. <br /> - **every hour** - Initiate the update **every hour** of the selected day of the month or day of the week or select one or multiple hours within the range 00 - 23. <br /> - **every minute** - Initiate the update **every minute** of the selected hour or select one or multiple minutes within the range 00 - 59. |

    - [FOR MONTHS, WHAT HAPPENS IF YOU SELECT A DAY THAT IS NOT PART OF A MONTH? LIKE 31? WILL IT BE SKIPPED THAT MONTH

>       OR WILL IT TRIGGER WHEN THE MONTH ROLLS OVER TO THE 1ST?]

Reviewer 2: Also 💀
